UFOs. Unidentified flying
objects.
Scientists, researchers, even
military personnel and
astronauts have been discussing
them for years.
Some people swear they've seen,
photographed and filmed them.
But all too often, the documents
remain secret.
In recent months however, some
major governments have begun to
make part of their files on the
unidentified flying objects
public.
France began declassification in
March, 2007,
followed by Great Britain in
May, 2007,
and Ecuador in May, 2008.
In the same period, the Vatican
gave its opinion on the matter.
Padre Jose Gabriel Funes
released a significant and
surprising statement.
A belief in the existence of
extraterrestrials does not go
against the Catholic faith.
Of the secret documents that are
now accessible to the wider
public, the Ecuadorian material
is perhaps the most significant
and the most fascinating.
And soon the other Latin
American countries may take the
same step.
The extraordinary change in the
Ecuadorian government stance on
UFOs is due above all to the
work of investigative
journalist, Jaime Rodriguez.
Thanks to his tireless research
and his programs broadcast from
the Ecuadorian TV channel,
ecuavisa.
His achievement, made together
with the head of state,
Raphael Correa, is just the
latest step in a long journey.
It took me 22 years, from 1983
to 2005, to try to explain to
the military that the UFO
phenomenon should go from
speculative to official.
That is, if government
authorities get their opinions
on many issues such as volcanic
eruptions, climate problems and
agriculture, why could'nt there
be representatives of the
government who discuss this
issue which is so vital to us?
Things being as they are, when
Colonel Lucio Gutierrez stood
for the presidency of the
republic, we managed to besiege
him, so to speak, with the
support of the media.
And that's how he offered to
make a commitment, saying to me,
Mr. Rodriguez, don't worry,
because my government will be
completely different.
When he became President a
second time, we reminded him of
the promise he had made, and he
confirmed his commitment.
He sent us to his personal
secretary Oscar Ayerve
in Guayaquil, and we brought him
an informational file on the
issue, and the reasons why the
Ministry of Defense aught to
give it special attention.
And so on April the 5th, 2005,
the CEIFO, or the
Ecuadorian Committee for the
Investigation of the UFO
Phenomenon was created under the
presidency of Colonel Lucio
Gutierrez.
Once the committee was created,
the military began to work with
civilians on a convincing report
aimed at persuading the
government to break the seal of
secrecy on the UFO documents.
But there were major problems
from the start.
The first problem was the funds
that were promised,
but then not granted.
The civilian researchers thus
decided to
find their own funding.
There were 6 civilians involved,
although officially,
there were 3 of us.
The other 3 worked with us, and
thus in total
we had a team of 6.
The 6 of us collected the money,
and we spent 12,000 dollars
in 2 years before we got the
dossier.
The second obstacle was the fact
that military personnel were
afraid of ruining their career
by making official statements,
since the UFO phenomenon was not
taken seriously.
The President had to intervene
to resolve the dilemma.
Thus we succeeded in obtaining
authorization from the then-
Minister of Defense, Lorena
Escudero,
which stated as follows:
All military personnel may make
statements with
absolute freedom, and this issue
will not be to the addition of
any detail on their CV that
might damage their reputation.
In this way, we managed to
overcome the second obstacle,
which was very important.
The third problem that Rodriguez
and his colleagues had to
overcome was also the most
difficult. It directly involved
the US secret services, who
offered military personnel
significant economic and career
related incentives provided that
they respected a series of
obligations.
Amongst these, they required
that information and documents
regarding UFOs should be
concealed.
In the meantime, Raphael Correa,
had been elected
President of Ecuador.
In March 2008, a diplomatic
crisis with Columbia led Correa
to discover that his secret
services had been corrupted.
He discovered that US
intelligence had secretly
financed the Ecuadorian military
secret services.
So Correa took action. He
dismissed the entire military
structure directing the military
secret services, and through the
US embassy, he ordered the
expulsion of all the CIA
officers and all those who were
involved in
secret work in Ecuador.
This frightened the military
personnel enough that they
ceased to conceal information.
The following week, the
President called a meeting in
Consejo, the National Security
Council.
The meeting included the Air
Force Commander, the Army
Commander, the Commander of the
Armed Forces, the Head of the
Joint Command, and the Minister
of Defense.
He invited us to this meeting,
and in front of us he said,
the Commanders of the Air Force,
Army and Armed Forces
must completely deregulate
information on the
UFO phenomenon.
We don't want anything about
this issue to remain secret in
our country. The documents say
that Jaime Rodriguez
is authorized to enter any
military structure in the
country to conduct
investigations and gather
testimony on any case concerning
the UFO phenomenon.
Thanks to this authorization,
over 400 deregulated UFO videos
are now available to researchers
in Ecuador.
Most of them were recorded by
civilians.
In fact, before President
Raphael Correa took a new,
sensational stance on the
subject, the military
confiscated all such videos. The
material was regularly
classified, and the public was
denied access to it.
The statement made by the Chief
of Air Staff,
Colonel Zanoni Garcia Dominguez
confirms the reason
behind this situation.
Once we have obtained the
analyses and information,
we'll be able to transmit all
these documents officially.
These are the first films of
Unidentified Flying Objects
to be declassified by the
Ecuadorian government.
While celebrating a birthday
party at the home of the former
Vice President of the Republic,
Luis Parodi,
guests noticed an anomalous
object hovering in the sky.
The video was recorded in 1992.
In the images, we can clearly
see the mysterious craft's
orange-colored glow, and its
tubular shape.
This video, also recorded in the
1990's, shows an amazing
glowing platform hovering in the
skies over Quito.
The video was recorded by
Francisco Navarro and his sister
from the terrace of their home.
The videos may be the most
fascinating part of the UFO
material, but the direct
testimony made by military
personnel is of even greater
importance.
44 statements by military
personnel
were released to the CEIFO.
Today, they are part of the
public domain on
the internet and YouTube.
These personnel are still in the
military. They have experienced
the events described in person
whilst in service.
There can be no doubt as to the
veracity of these statements.
While we were executing a flight
maneuver during an instrumental
exercise at the base in Manta,
we saw a light moving towards
the Crucita sector near the city
of Crucita.
We notified the control tower
that unknown traffic
was approaching.
So when we got closer at about
2,000 or 3,000 feet,
we veered left to get a better
look at the lights
we had in front of us.
Right then the 2 lights moved
into formation with
incredible speed and flew off
toward the Crucita Mountains
near the city of Crucita.
We flew over the sector but we
were unable to locate them.
We had begun our descent from
11,000 feet,
and I reckon that we had
descended by about 2,000 feet
when I saw a very bright light
more or less around,
how can I put it, at a position
of about 5 o clock- a bit lower.
I was in the back cockpit of the
airplane, and
Major Enriquez was in the front
cockpit.
I pointed it out to him and he
saw it.
Immediately afterward I called
the control tower to verify
whether there was an airplane,
to which the tower responded
that there was no traffic.
We thought it was an airplane,
but in the moment we veered
toward this bright light,
we saw that the object turned
toward us and divided into
two very intense lights on a
collision course with us.
So the pilot in the front
cockpit, the Major,
executed a maneuver to the left,
and while we were turning,
we continued to watch what the
object was doing,
and we saw that it stopped in
mid-air
and moved down toward the
mountains.
We tried to fly over a small
mountain and the object crossed
us on this side and while we
tried to cross it from
the other side it disappeared
without a trace.
We scanned the area but there
was no trace of it.
We thought it was an airplane,
but the movements this light
made were very fast, very
erratic.
An airplane can't do that, for
example,
turn and stop in mid-air and
descend- descend diagonally.
No airplane can do that.
The instruments we have enable
us to identify
the objects moving in airspace
clearly.
We can clearly distinguish a
commercial airplane
from a military airplane, or
from extraneous objects.
We have a lot of confidence in
the capability
of these instruments.
Therefore, the information we
have available,
not just our information, but
also that coming from abroad,
in particular from the United
States,
which is a very qualified source
of information,
makes me confident that we're
dealing with an area in which
there are Unidentified Flying
Objects.
In real terms, these are
extraterrestrial objects,
and I'm sure of it.
We share the universe with other
beings.
Statements of such significance
have never before been made
publicly by military officials
in active service.
And they show the level of
importance of the order that
President Correa had given to
the Commanders of the Armed
Forces on June the 25th, 2007,
with official document number
2007-0439 CSN.
These events combined with Jaime
Rodriguez's role as a
television journalist began to
change civilian society's
attitude towards the UFO
phenomenon in Ecuador.
We've noticed that there's a
greater sense of maturity
among us now. The population has
a more mature attitude
towards the UFO phenomenon.
This stimulates us to move our
work into the analytical part
of the subject, which is what we
really need to focus on now.
Initially, civilians seemed to
be afraid to call me and say,
I've recorded a video.
Now they do, and with new vigor.
People are participating much
more now.
I get a lot of emails stating,
I've taken this photo,
I've recorded this video.
That is, we've noted an increase
in cooperation on the part of
the civilian community regarding
testimony and evidence.
This is the sense of maturity
I'm talking about.
So the sensationalist press,
which has often used this
subject to sell magazines or
other things, has
suddenly gone quiet. Completely.
This change began to yield its
first fruits.
The example that Rodriguez
describes is emblematic.
I'd had a lot of problems with
the airport's radar director.
He was always annoyed with me
because
he didn't believe in UFOs.
So this gentleman saw that I was
leaving and he called me,
Hey, Jaime Rodriguez, come here.
And he said to me, seeing as
you're interested in
these things, have
a look at this photo.
It was taken here, yesterday,
at about 6 pm.
And he gave me this photo.
This is evidence.
It was taken by the radar
director at Guayaquil airport.
Even some young people from a
famous Ecuadorian
music group called los Chaucha
Kings contacted me.
Their drummer, Diego Mino, had
taken a photo of it.
The same object photographed by
two or three people at the same
hour on the same day is even
stronger evidence for us.
It's a substantial change in
behavior for those who had
denied and opposed the matter
before.
Just think, now they're
contributing.
They're providing evidence.
This is a real change in
attitude caused by this,
how can I put it, this openness
in deregulating the information
on UFOs in Ecuador.
The photo shows a clearly
disk-shaped object
above the Guuayaquil city
airport buildings.
We can easily make out the UFO's
hexagonal structure.
For a number of years
Unidentified Flying Objects
have often been detected near
erupting volcanos,
or those that are about to
become active.
We have a volcanic chain, part
of which is active,
and the other part returning to
activity.
Tungurahua attracts media
interest with TV stations
placing their cameras there to
film the volcano
each time it erupts.
And they show these objects
twirling in the sky.
TV stations get involved in this
phenomenon filming the UFOs
flying around the volcanos.
During an eruption of the
volcano Tungurahua
the main national channel in
Ecuador, Teleamazonas,
films the extraordinary
spectacle.
Suddenly a glowing object
appears above the volcanic
crater, and then disappears
after just a few seconds.
At one point, a mysterious
glowing craft reappears.
Cameraman Marco Ramirez and
Julio Avilar captured
the incredible scene on film.
The object is moving, the video
cameras are set on tripods.
Shortly afterwards, flashes of
light
similar to lightning begin to
appear.
When slowing down the images, we
can clearly distinguish
these flashes of light.
They seem to come out of the
light spheres.
Then, a series of even larger
and brighter flashes appears
at the mouth of the volcano.
In this still, one of the
flashes seems to come
from two side by side sources
while other smaller flashes
appear above them.
Here we can see three light
spheres,
and only one of them emits a
flash.
Later, telemetric analyses
conducted in the United States
have revealed that the object
inside the crater
had to have been at least 30
meters in diameter.
But what sort of technology
enables a flying object to stop
at the mouth of an erupting
volcano?
The incredible objects we're
seeing in this video was
filmed by an Ecuadorian
government official.
Once again, the video was
recorded
near Ecuador's volcanic chain.
In the end, the witness and his
friends reach the panoramic spot
in front of the volcano
Tungurahua,
their original destination
before the sighting.
It wasn't the first time that
this type of UFO
had been sighted and filmed.
In the 1990's Victor Chiluiza
sighted and filmed
this flying object in Ecuador.
It looks very similar to the one
we've just seen.
When I realized that they
actually didn't seem to be
airplanes or balloons, I felt a
thrill, and I understood
that it really wasn't what I had
expected. It was a UFO.
It must have been 200-180 meters
from here.
It was closer, and so it looked
larger. And, I don't know,
maybe the video camera helped me
to put it into focus enough
to see the image clearly, and I
believe it was thanks
to the video camera.
And one thing that really caught
my attention was that
it made no noise.
I might have thought it was an
airplane, a helicopter,
but I couldn't hear any noise.
And that was what made me get my
video camera and start filming.
But when I saw it through the
video camera,
when I saw it from close-up, I
didn't see the typical saucer
shape, but rather the shape of a
sort of star, a very particular
shape that I had never seen
before.
I got the impression that it was
something out of the ordinary,
something that I would never
have imagined seeing.
It really struck me, the fact
that I saw something
that's so rarely sighted.
It seems natural to me, I mean
in such an immense universe,
the third planet can't possibly
be the only inhabited one.
I've always believed it, and I
have to be honest,
I always wanted to see a flying
object.
And when at last I was able to
see one,
it was a dream come true.
Another similar craft was
subsequently filmed in Mexico.
The first was sighted and filmed
in Ticul Yucatan
on the 7th of August, 2004.
Another similar flying object
was filmed in Ticul, Mexico
on the 12th of December, 2004.
Another sighting confirms the
link between
Unidentified Flying Objects and
volcanic areas.
This time it was filmed by a
truly exceptional witness.
The event took place near
Ecuador's capital, Quito.
Here the wind can reach up to
140 km per hour.
A family is on an outing in the
countryside
when something attracts their
attention.
An unusual object hovering in
the air,
despite the strong wind.
Filming the event is Ecuador's
Chief of Police.
That same night, the staff of
Quito's Ecuavisa television
channel received several calls
notifying them of the presence
of a mysterious brightly shining
craft right above the crater.
The station sent a team straight
away to film what was happening.
The following is their report,
which was later broadcast.
Now, we'll go back to the news
we gave you at the beginning of
the program due to the large
number of calls we've received.
The peace was disturbed at Quito
tonight by a phenomenon
that has not yet been explained.
Here we see the images recorded
earlier, a bright blinking
yellow and red colored light
appeared and disappeared
in the skies south of the
capital.
The phenomenon was seen from
various neighborhoods in Quito,
and residents primarily in the
southern area
have been calling our staff
continually
to tell us that they saw it.
Ecuavisa's video cameras
recorded the
images you're seeing now.
By analyzing the images, we can
clearly see that the light
emanating from the UFO even
shines through the clouds.
The mysterious object's varying
luminosity and its
ability to hover proved that it
couldn't be a headlight
on an airplane, or any other
conventional craft.
Quito was once more the setting
for another incredible sighting.
It's another important
declassified case
which joins the already
extensive CEIFO archives.
On September the 5th, 2007, Dr.
Antonio Ozzorio witnessed
a very special phenomenon.
A flotilla.
I was sitting down having lunch
and chatting with Patricia
about the patients, as we always
do.
Patricia came back in, looked
out of the window and said,
Doctor, look. What could that
be?
I went to the window and I also
saw some...
they looked like airplanes or
balloons.
They seemed to me to be more
like aerostats, but I was amazed
to see so many of them.
I ran out, called my wife and
told her to come and see.
It was a really strange thing,
and I asked her
where my video camera was.
I ran to get it, and we went out
onto the terrace
to watch the scene.
We can see a classic flotilla
composed of about
57 white spheres in the sky.
The video camera has recorded a
sound similar to the
rattling of a train in their
presence.
CEIFO researchers checked
whether the
military aviation command or the
civil aviation office
had authorized the release of
aerostats
or other similar objects.
But their answer was negative.
I thought that there were no
fewer than 50 of them.
At first sight they were moving
forward in a uniform way.
But once I filmed them, it
appeared that
they were brightly shining
objects and
apparently they moved very
quickly.
I saw two objects fly by, flat
and oval shaped.
Curiosity drove me to go to the
window and I said,
Doctor, come look at this. What
is it?
And we stood in front of the
window,
and when we saw what it was
we noted that there were about
50 of them, so many of them.
Dr. Antonio Ozzorio had always
been skeptical
about the UFO phenomenon.
He would never have imagined
that
one day he'd be involved in such
an event.
No, I didn't believe them
because they've always said
there are people who know how to
edit video in such a way
as to make us believe they're
real, but they aren't.
But now I believe it. I have
faith in it.
Nowadays, we're accustomed to
seeing security cameras
positioned at various points in
our cities.
They're part of the scenery, and
nobody notices them anymore.
In Ecuador they call them 'eagle
eyes'.
We know the
cameras are there
to watch out for accidents
or criminal acts.
But in Cuenca, Ecuador, they
recorded a rather unusual scene.
In Cuenca, a city in the
mountains South Ecuador,
there are surveillance cameras
in the streets.
One of these filmed some
children pointing to the sky
from the terrace of their house.
The person operating the
surveillance camera
zoomed in on the children and
moved it upwards
to see what they were pointing
to in space.
By doing so he had located and
filmed a UFO
moving toward the Cajas Lagoons.
The model of video camera with
which these extraordinary
images were recorded is very
sophisticated and expensive.
While the UFO was being filmed,
a second object appeared
at the same point, and they both
went toward Cajas.
Here, the same thing that
happened in other cases
repeated itself.
The UFO stopped- hovering.
When the children pointed to it
and someone there
began to film it, the object
started to move.
I think that there was some form
of intelligence inside it.
By analyzing the images we can
note how the first object
begins to move the moment the
video camera pans over it.
This becomes even clearer when
the second
Unidentified Flying Object
arrives to accompany the first
before they fly away.
This video is part of the UFO
material that was declassified
thanks to President Raphael
Correa's order.
Therefore the authenticity of
these videos has been confirmed
by the Presidency of the
Republic of Ecuador.
The great results that Rodriguez
has achieved in Ecuador thus far
are unequalled in any other
South American country.
But even in other nations like
Brazil,
the ufological community is very
active.
But it sets itself similar
goals.
Ademar Jose Gevaerd is the best
known Brazilian investigator
following the UFO phenomenon.
The best known cases in Brazil
even on an international level
are fairly specific, distinct
cases.
For example, UFOs in the Amazon
area are a matter of frequent
discussion, and Brazilian
ufologists
have been examining the cases
for some time.
In fact, a constant alien
presence in the wild and nearly
unexplored Amazon area is
something of a legend.
An ancient memory of contact
with beings from the stars
has been passed down in the
myths and traditions of
many cultures that some consider
primitive.
The Kayapo Tribe is among these
witnesses.
We have indigenous nations, and
this is an incredible thing,
entire indigenous populations
who base their rituals and
folk celebrations on the
supposition that they are
of extra-planetary origins.
For example, the indigenous
people of Upper Xingu believe
that they descend from a
mythical being called
Bep Kororoti
who came to Earth decades,
centuries ago,
according to the cultural
traditions of that people,
leaving an extraterrestrial
legacy.
They believe that they belong to
a civilization
from beyond Earth, and that one
day they will be brought back
to their homeland.
In remembrance of their ancient
descent from the stars,
the Kayapo celebrate a rite in
which one of them personifies
the mythical Bep Kororoti, the
being from space who taught them
how to farm, and many other
things.
The costume used in the ceremony
is made of woven vegetable
fibers, and its shape suggests
more modern clothing.
The headdress clearly simulates
a helmet,
and the rest resembles a
pressurized suit.
Is this just an ancient myth, or
could it be something else?
However you choose to view it,
it's an intriguing story for our
times.
One of the most important
ufological cases that took place
in the Amazon area directly
involved the Brazilian military.
The operation known as Prato
took place in 1977
in the state of Para within the
Amazon area,
and it achieved extraordinary
results.
The military became involved
after a remarkable number of
sightings and contacts began to
alarm the population
and the local authorities.
We reached such a serious level
that the local authorities
informed the Para state
government,
which in turn requested that the
Brazilian air force intervene.
So an investigation was ordered.
As a consequence, operation
Prato was launched in September,
and ended in December, 1977.
It produced about 2,000 pages of
documents of which we have
over 200 filed in folders.
It also produced 500 photographs
of flying saucers, including
some taken from close range.
We have about two dozen of
those.
Operation Prato also produced at
least 16 hours of footage
showing flying saucers over the
Amazon area rivers.
Brazilian ufologists, and in
particular UFO Magazine,
have none of this material.
Operation Prato, which means
'saucer', as in 'flying saucer',
was closed down by the Brazilian
military command
in December, 1977.
The reason for this was puzzling
to say the least.
It was closed because something
happened,
the very thing that the military
was looking for.
Contact with extraterrestrial
beings.
That was one of their
objectives:
to attempt to establish contact
with
the forms of intelligence behind
the phenomenon.
They didn't think it could
happen.
When it happened, to put it
simply, when there was
direct contact between an
official of the
Brazilian Air Force and the
extraterrestrial beings,
which happened around
mid-December, 1977,
the Brazilian Air Force simply
understood
that it might lose control of
the situation,
and as a consequence it closed
down operation Prato for good.
Gevaerd first received
confirmation of these
extraordinary events from
Colonel Uyrange Hollanda,
the mission's commander.
Colonel Hollanda mysteriously
took his own life
sometime later.
The incredible results achieved
by this military operation
pushed the ufologists to attempt
to persuade the government
to release the documentation it
had produced.
Today, our mission in Brazil
aims to get that material
finally declassified.
We've already had confirmation
from various military sources.
At the moment, it mainly comes
from
Brigadier Jose Carlos Pereira,
former commander
of the Brazilian Aerospace
Defense Command.
Commander Pereira not only
confirmed the truth
behind this operation and the
classified documents,
but also gave an assessment of
it from a strategic
and a military perspective.
The reports are kept in the
archive
and classified as secret.
Now if I were to say during
operation Prato there was
this or that contact,
I'd be violating the secrecy
imposed by law on my country.
I can't do it. I can't reveal
it.
Otherwise I'd be committing a
crime.
But I can say, please change the
law. Please make a new law.
The UFO matter does not
constitute a threat of war
to any country.
It doesn't threaten anyone's
safety,
and doesn't cause panic amongst
the population.
It doesn't even threaten
people's privacy.
I see no reason why it can't be
completely opened and divulged.
Pereira's analysis even made
news
on the international ufological
scene.
There is an extensive amount of
evidence and witness accounts,
not just in Brazil but
throughout the world.
This evidence is quite valid and
carries great weight.
Commander Pereira's words are
supported
by the never ending stream of
cases
which continues to appear with
increasing frequency.
In the rest of South America
the videos and photographs that
have been produced
are certainly not as numerous as
in Mexico,
but the material in existence
provides researchers and
scientists
with increasingly extraordinary
material
for their investigations.
Peru has been the stage for
remarkable UFO appearances
since the 1990s.
A very intense wave of sightings
took place
in the capital of Lima in 1999.
The videos recorded at the time
caught the attention of both the
media and the Peruvian public.
A number of very bright
unidentified objects
flying at low altitudes
generated unease in Lima's
population.
People didn't know how to
explain what was happening,
and the authorities were unable
to provide any clarification
regarding the nature of the
unknown craft.
On the 20th of May 2007,
a flotilla appeared in the skies
over Lima,
rekindling interest in the media
and the Peruvian public.
This is the news report
broadcast
on the channel ATV Noticias.
It was about noon when people on
the street saw this
spectacular phenomenon.
The event was also filmed from
another point in the city.
By analyzing the frames we can
clearly see
the classic white spheres making
up the flotilla.
It doesn't happen often that
people in traffic stop
to witness a spectacular show of
Unidentified Flying Objects.
The city of Treinta y Tres in
Uruguay
was at the center of one of
these rare cases.
The episode took place when
Georgio Bongiovanni
was visiting from Italy.
He'd travelled there for a
series of conferences
regarding the presence of UFOs.
In the video we can clearly see
numerous flying objects
hovering in the clear sky.
They're flying at a relatively
low altitude,
and are easily seen by the
people on the street.
The objects' movement clearly
shows their ability
to move autonomously during
flight.
Yet another spectacular example
of this unknown form of
aviation.
Tarbaca is near San Jose, the
capital of Costa Rica.
Just before 4 o clock in the
afternoon,
Marvin Badilla, a young
carpenter, was working
when he heard a strange buzzing
that distracted him from his
work.
To his intense amazement, the
young man saw
that the source of the noise was
about 100 meters away from him.
I was shaping this table here
outside. It was very cloudy.
And I looked up and I saw some
sort of object.
It was very bright. I looked at
it carefully
and took out my mobile phone.
I saw that it was giving me time
to film it,
so I started to record.
I called my colleague who was
working with the drill,
but he didn't hear me.
I called him again.
I turned towards him, moving the
phone,
and when I turned back
the object had already gone.
The film that Marvin recorded
shows a classic flying saucer
hovering just a few meters from
the ground.
His colleague, William Rivera,
didn't hear Marvin shouting
over the noise of the drill he
was using.
Thus he missed the extraordinary
spectacle.
[yelling and drill noises]
William! William!
William Rivera assures us that
Marvin was quite shaken.
No, he wouldn't calm down.
He was still very, very worked
up.
You see, I believe that this was
a UFO.
I have no doubt it wasn't
manmade.
And why was it here? We don't
know.
The movements that the craft
makes and its appearance prove
that it could not have been a
conventional earthly vehicle.
According to Marvin's
description,
the object was about as large as
the wheel of a large tractor.
It wouldn't have been large
enough to hold
a normal sized person.
Oscar Sierra, the ufologist from
Costa Rica,
explains his theory to the
Teletica journalists.
It's not necessarily a driven
object,
it could be some sort of probe,
like those that human beings
sent to Titan not that long ago,
which were small, about 2
meters.
Therefore they aren't
necessarily piloted objects,
rather they could be some kind
of surveying probe.
It's hard to say whether this is
the correct explanation.
But it's clear that the video
recorded by Marvin Badilla
is among the best documents that
the investigators have today.
Continual sightings in South
America
and in the rest of the world.
The creation of an official UFO
investigation committee
in Ecuador.
The declassification of secret
files in other nations
such as France and England.
The statements made by the
Vatican.
A new perception of the
phenomenon
in ever wider areas of civilian
society.
They're all signs that something
is changing.
Various ancient prophecies
predict that
change is coming to humanity.
For Jaime Rodgriguez, this hope
is a certainty.
Absolutely. We're at the
beginning of a new era.
In fact, we've got a lot of
responsibility.
And I'm a person who truly
believes,
that is I have a feeling that
the predictions that the Maya
made for 2012
are of great importance.
And I believe that people's
conscience is going to change.
Might this be true? Certainly
we can hope that humanity might
soon be able to
unlock the mystery
of what seems to be an
increasingly frequent presence.
(captions by CaptionBear 2014)